[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Global
variables are evil in all languages.
One of the unfortunate things about
JavaScript is that it sometimes requires
the use of global variables.
Because it doesn't have any other
mechanism for binding code units together.
So everything gets dumped
in common global space,
which is terrible for reliability,
even worse for security.
So, you need to avoid global
variables as much as possible.
So my advice in naming
global variables is,
write them in uppercase,
because I want them to be really rare.
And I want them to stand out
because there are these dangers
that are inherent in globals,
I want them to be visible.
JavaScript has new prefix,
which was intended
to look like Java in the way that
you create instances of objects.
But it doesn't work the way
you would expect, and
there was a bug in the way it was defined.
That if you have a function that's
intended to be used as a constructor, and
someone calls that function
without the new prefix.
Instead of initializing a new object, it's
going to clobber global variables instead.
Again, no run time warning,
no compile time warning,
just doing the worst thing, which is bad.
So because of that,
we have a convention that
constructor functions should
be named with InitialCaps.
And nothing else should be
named with InitialCaps.
Only by having that convention do we have
any hope of identifying the cases where
new is missing.
>> Douglas Crockford: Let's see,
this is another ambiguous statement,
var a = b = 0, looks like it creates two
variables, a and b, and initializes them.
But what it actually does is
initialize a global variable, b, and
initialize a,
which was probably not what you intended.
That someone was going
to some work here to,
one of the really bad parts about
JavaScript is implicit global variables.
So if you have a variable and
you do not explicitly declare it,
it's assumed to be global.
That was done to make the language
easier for beginners,
it makes the language much harder for
professionals.
I assume you're all professionals, so
this turns out to be a bad feature.
So you need to figure out which of these,
again,
you intended, and write the right one.
Write it in a way that clearly
communicates your intent.
Okay, so Thompson created the ++ operator
in B in order to increment pointers.
Since then, we have learned that
pointer arithmetic is harmful and
it is no longer included
in programming languages.
The last popular language to have
point arithmetic in it was C ++,
a language so
bad it was named after this operator.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: Now even though
we were not incrementing pointers anymore,
we still have this operator anyway.
Which is now used to add one to integers,
it's like, why do we need that?
This operator was implicated
in the buffer over one craze.
Remember when Unix and
Windows were failing all over the place.
And they have to refractor them in order
to avoid the buffer overrun attack.
And it turned out it was this
operator was implicated because this
operator encourages programmers
to write stuff as one liners.
Where you can do a whole lot of
mutation and modification of stuff,
many steps all in one statement.
So you can take a big block of code and
kind of squish it all down into one line.
And that turns out to be
a horrible trade off,
because the benefit of getting everything
down to one mind is hugely negative.
Because it makes the code much harder to
understand and much harder to maintain.
And in fact the attackers
took great advantage of that.
Because nobody knows exactly what that
code was except the attackers that spent
the time to figure out what
it was actually doing.
I found in my own practice,
if I'm using ++, I get this twitch,
I can't help it, I start doing, [SOUND].
And it's stupid, and I know it's
stupid and I cannot stop myself.
So ultimately I had to say, no more,
I am not going to write ++ ever again,
I'm going to write, + = 1,
and suddenly I could relax.
Food tastes better.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: But
I hear from people all the time saying,
no,
I should be able to write x + + because
it means exactly the same thing.
And it's so
much faster to type because you go,
[SOUND], instead of going, [SOUND].
We're not saving time doing that, and if
you're actually are losing time on that,
there's this wonderful new
thing called keyboard macros.
Where you could do something like Alt+ and
boom, it'll do that for
you, so the typing speed
argument is completely bogus.
But there's a bigger problem here because
they don't mean exactly the same thing,
++x is a thing that means
exactly the same thing.
So if I see somebody writing
x++ in increment position.
I have to ask, does this clown know
the difference between pre-increment and
post-increment?
Because there's a really subtle off by one
bug there because it's only off by one for
a little piece of time.
So debugging that kind of stuff is
really hard and time consuming.
And I have to look at every
++ in this program, and ask,
did he get that one right?
Did he get that one right?
I've got to figure we've got at
least one of these wrong and so
makes these programs a lot harder to read.
Recently I was reading some code and
I saw this, ++x, ++x, okay,
what's the story here, what's going on?
It could be a copy and paste error, but
more likely a second person came by and
saw, there's an off by one error here.
So I'll fix the off by one by putting
another one of these in here.
Whereas if the original
form had said += 1,
the obvious fix would have
been to make it += 2.
Which I don't think anyone would
argue would be the better thing.
This doesn't happen all the time,
but it happens, and so
it's something you need to watch out for.
And it kinda raises the question,
why do we need a completely
different syntactic form for
adding 1 then adding all other values?
I cannot answer that question,
I don't know why 1 is so
peculiar that we need a completely
different syntax for it.
It doesn't make any sense to me at all,
I'd challenge anybody to defend that.
>> Speaker 2: I'll give an answer.
I think it was the one liner where it
was so common with copying an array or
a portion of array.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: And so
the arrays are the abstraction level, and
understandably we saw the ++.
Typically it was used in
the sort of block tool?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, which we've
since determined is a really bad idea,
there's no reason to do it anymore.
>> Speaker 2: We don't do it as often,
I think.
>> Douglas Crockford: We shouldn't do it
at all, there is no justification for it.
So for no cost,
by adopting a more rigorous style,
many classes of errors can
be automatically avoided.
Here's another one,
this is another of Thompson's,
this is Thompson's fault,
bcpl had an if statement with a block.
And in bcpl, the parents around
the condition were optional, but
the braces around
the consequence were required.
And that turned out to be right,
Thompson had been working
in Fortran and PL1, and
they did it the other way.
So he decided to make the pairings
around the condition required.
And the braces optional,
which turns out be wrong because it
encourages stuff like this,
this looks like this one.
If a is true, we'll call b and c, but it's
not, it's going to call c unconditionally.
This causes errors all the time,
this is a really common source of errors.
So, my advice is, figure out which of
these you mean, and write that instead.
So always put the curly
braces in every time,
even if there's only one little thing
behind it, put the curly braces on.
It makes it much more likely that the next
person who has to fix your code is
going to be able to fix
it without breaking it.
And that turns out to be a really
good thing, the counterargument is,
I don't have time,
because you have to go, [SOUND], so hard.
This is a great trade off for
two characters, you can make your code so
much more robust in the face
of agile development.
I mean, this should be an easy trade off,
always put the curly braces in,
it makes your program so
much more reliable.
So as our processes become more agile,
our coding must be more resilient.
So I would characterize bad
stylists in one of four classes,
first, there are the under educated.
We see a lot of these in the web, people
who had no formal training in programming.
Learned most of what they know from
doing view source on really bad code.
Often going through many
layers of imitation and
crappification leading all the way
back to DreamLeader and other things.
And I feel sad for those people,
they just never had a chance.
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: And
then there are the old school guys.
Guys who are coming to say
JavaScript from C++, or
Java because that's where the jobs are.
And they're resentful, they'd rather
be working in a man's language.
But okay, I 'll write in your JavaScript,
but there's no way I'm
going to know what I'm doing,
that's principle, which is crazy.
I mean, JavaScript is the only
language that people feel good
about not knowing what they're doing.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: And
that's inexcusable, we're professionals,
programming language isn't complicated.
And our principle tool,
you have to know what you're doing,
even if it's JavaScript.
So then there are the thrill
seekers who want to show off
their mad skills by writing
code that they know is flimsy.
Just to show that they can do it, and
guys like that I think they should have
to wear helmets when they are coding.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: And
then most dangerous
are the exhibitionists, who will study
the standards and understand exactly
what the languages are doing.
And exhaustively test them
across all implementations and
find weird crazy stuff that no one would
ever expect you could do and do it.
Just to show off that they
figured this out and can do it.
So they write programs that
make no obvious sense just
to show off what they can do and
I think that's mad.
And they will say, that was intentional,
I know what I'm doing.
>> Speaker 2: [COUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: And I say, no,
if you knew what you were doing,
you would not be doing that.
>> Douglas Crockford: So, programs are the
most complicated things that humans make.
And they have to be perfect and
we are far from perfect,
I am a deeply flawed human being.
And so I require a lot of discipline
in order to do this work, because it so
hard, so designing a programming
style demands discipline.
It should not be about selecting
features because they're liked or
pretty familiar, or
because they reduce your keyboarding.
It should be because they
help reduce your error rate,
ultimately that's the only
thing that matters.
The consequence is you are going to
be spending more time in the abyss.
The abyss is this cold dark deep place
where you go after your tower of
operators has collapsed
into a puddle of confusion.
You just look into the darkness and
say, my god, what have I done?
I used to think that everybody
should learn programming.
I remember when I first learned it, and
suddenly the world looked
really different to me.
And I had these tools for
analyzing everything, and I thought, wow,
this is great,
everybody should learn to do this.
I don't think that anymore,
I think I am able to do what I do because
there is something deeply wrong with me.
Now so if a normal person
tries to do programming,
they can usually write the statements and
all that, but then they have to debug.
And they have to go down into the abyss,
and if they come back,
they say, I'm changing majors,
I don't know how you guys do this.
I can do this because there's this defect
in me, which, a couple of defects.
One is, I am unreasonably optimistic,
I believe that
I can go down into the abyss and
I will find it and I will come back.
There's no reason to think that I should
be able to do that, but I think so and
I can, normal people can't do that.
Now, it turns out that optimism is why
I can't schedule worth a crap, right?
Because yeah,
I should be able to do that, I can't, but
why do I think I can
because I'm an optimist.
You have to be an optimist
to do this work, but
the other thing is the blackout,
which comes after the euphoria.
That you go down there and
it's terrible and painful, and
then you come back and you feel good.
And you forget about it, and
we do that all the time, and
that's why we don't
learn from our mistakes.
And normal people don't
have that blackout and
they remember their time in the abyss and
go, I'm not doing that again.
So having discovered and
started accounting for my time and
figuring out,
how much lost time do I have in my day?
And how much of that was
spent keyboarding, no,
most of it was spent down there.
And so if I want to be
a more effective developer,
I've got to spend less time there.
That's the thing I should be optimizing,
optimizing anything else
doesn't make sense.